Advanced Physical Design Using OpenLANE/Sky130 nm
Using Openlane/sky130nm technology we can create a GDSII file from RTL file. We are taken picorv32a.v and create a GDSII file from RTL file.
Table of Contents
1.	Inception of Opensource EDA
•	Understanding of converting RTL synthesis to GDSII file
1.	SoC design
2.	Opensource EDA tools
In this we have to select the folder (example -- picorv32a)
3.	Prepare the design files
Commands are
Go to the designs---docker—pwd, and enter command is ls -ltr then we get flow.tcl file
Interactive this flow.tcl file means
./flow.tcl -interactive
**/ preparation design/**
prep -design picorv32a
.
.
.
Preparation complete
                           4.we can see the new file in picorv32a by enter ls -ltr.
•	First step is synthesis verification 
Command is run_synthesis
We can find a new file i.e picorv32a.synthesis.v--------synthesis mapping is done---this is results part
Timing Report----
Last report generated in yosys gives the actual synthesis static report
Command for timing report is  opensta_main.timing.rpt.

    2.Floorplan 
	floorplan
	all logic gates are standard cells
	Utilization Factor =ratio of Area occupied by the netlist to the total area of the core
	 Aspect Ratio=height/width
	Pre-placed cells: These are the cells which are designed only once and can be instantiated number of times. Floorplan of these cells are done before placement & routing. Once placement of these cells is done then no movements will happen.
	Decoupling capacitors: placed between supply and macros for providing proper supply to the macros.
	Power Planning: 1. ground bounce 2. voltage drops
Let us consider number macros for which we have to place no. of decoupling capacitors.
	Pin Placement: pin information between die and core  
Mode=1 means, gap between each and every two pins are equal.
	Command for floorplan ---run_floorplan
We can see the floorplan diagram with help of magic
3.Placement: Placing cells on floorplan rows aligned with sites
	Global Placement: for optimal position of cells (not necessarily legal)
	Detailed Placement: for legal positions
	Clock Tree Synthesis: To deliver the clock to all Sequential Elements 
4.Routing: Implement the interconnect using the available metal.
	global routing: Generate routing guides.
	detailed routing: Uses routing Guides to implement actual wiring.
5.Signoff: Physical (DRC, LVS) and Timing verifications (STA)
 
From above figure, compiler converts human understanding languages like c,c++,Verilog into instructions in Assembly and Assembler converts instructions into binary language in the form of binary ‘1’ and ‘0’.
Components of opensource digital ASIC design
The Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) requires three enablers or elements 
•	Resistor Transistor Logic Intellectual Property (RTL IPs), 
•	Electronic Design Automation (EDA) Tools 
•	Process Design Kit (PDK) data.
 
•	Opensource RTL Designs: github, librecores, opencores
•	Opensource EDA tools: QFlow, OpenROAD, OpenLANE
•	Opensource PDK data: Google Skywater130 PDK
Simplified RTL2GDS Flow 
•	Synthesis: RTL Converted to gate level netlist using standard cell libraries (SCL).
•	Floor & Power Planning:Planning defines the size of the chip/block,preplacing Hard Macros and thereby detemining the routing areas between them.Power Planning provide power ti evary Macros,standard cells.It connects Power to chip by considering isssues like EM and IR Drop.
•	Placement: Placing cells on floorplan rows aligned with sites
o	Global Placement: for optimal position of cells(not necessary legal)
o	Detailed Placement: for legal positions
o	Clock Tree Synthesis: To deliver the clock to all Sequential Elements
•	Routing: Implement the interconnect using the available metal.
o	Global Routing: Generate routing guides.
o	Detailed Routing: Uses routing Guides to implement actual wiring.
•	Signoff: Physical (DRC, LVS) and Timing verifications

